hey guys what's up and welcome back to
my channel so today I want to just bring
it back to the basics and talk about how
you can get started with your fitness
journey I know that some of you guys
watching this have been working out for
a while and some of you guys might just
be getting into it in your first couple
months or even years of fitness and
struggling to figure it all out so I
thought I would give you guys my best
tips for how to get started how to be
successful and how to make this whole
thing just a little bit simpler I guess
I should start by saying that it's
called a journey for a reason because
it's not a straight road right it's
gonna have some weird wines and hills
and whatever and my journey is no
exception to that
I started off of course in athletics but
when my real fitness journey started if
you guys watch my other video was like
running and cardio that's how I started
that was what felt available to me it
was the least intimidating but I spent
many years spinning my wheels and being
stuck in this like cardio diet mentality
and that's kind of what my journey how
it started if I had someone telling me
not to do that at the time I would
probably have reached my goals faster
but no one on YouTube or really online
was advocating strength training yet it
just like wasn't cool it wasn't a thing
that women was doing we're doing that
much so I mean I say this all to say
it's really really hard and I want you
to take the pressure off of yourself and
just know that it's a call to journey
because it's hard and it's not a
straight road and it's pretty individual
as well so let's just take the pressure
off before we even jump into this and
just know that the fact that you're
watching this means that you are trying
you're excited you're getting started
and that's perfectly fine okay so my
first tip if you're getting started is
to yourself where you're at so a lot of
times we jump into a fitness journey or
any really new project and we're like oh
I'm gonna start at this point because
this other person is starting here or I
see this person doing this and I want to
do that but what you're not taking into
account is how many years have they been
doing that for example like we're not
gonna just look like Whitney Simmons
overnight and the goals and to look like
someone else either realize that like a
lot about your role models have been
working after you know lifestyle their
habits their nutrition their fitness
from upwards of five years so then where
do you start start with where you're at
like what feels doable to you ask
yourself this question like coach
yourself if you can ask yourself on a
scale of one to ten do I feel like I
could go and lift some weights at the
gym it has to be an eight nine or ten
for you to decide to do that anything
less it won't happen you'll keep putting
it off and then you'll blame yourself
and you'll fall into this cycle of you
know not seeing results feeling
frustrated and it doesn't end up going
down a good path right I've been done up
have many times in my past you know
creating too steep of a goal or too
harsh of a diet and not seeing results
and then when I couldn't stick to it
blaming myself and saying oh I'm not
good enough I'm never gonna reach my
goals because I'm lazy that's when that
really horrible negative self-talk
starts to creep in and that's not a real
narrative that's true it's an it I mean
it's a real narrative to us who are
experiencing it but it's there's no
truth in that narrative because you set
goals that just you weren't meeting
yourself where you are at your first
step is to just ask yourself some
questions like having interview with
yourself and be like what do I feel like
I could do if the gym is like a six
because you're intimidated or you don't
know what you're gonna do once you get
in the gym then let's bring it back a
levels try doing workouts at home with a
pair of dumbbells and ask yourself
honest go one to ten tomorrow not like
next week like tomorrow or right now on
a scale of one to ten
tenday yes do I feel like I could commit
to this and do this and am i excited
about it again it needs to be an 8 9 or
10 for you to write it down and make it
a plan so in my fitness journey I
weights were like so far out of my
league I was a internationally ranked
athlete and I just had very minimal
experience lifting weights so I also had
lots of mindsets that it would make me
bulky and I just didn't understand that
it was the route that I needed to go and
that's okay I mean it's like I said it's
called a journey because you're gonna
fail a lot of times you're gonna have a
lot of what I call false starts which
are good things when you start you stop
you start you stop and overlong the way
you learn oh that didn't work oh that
was true super goal it helps you build
these layers to your lifestyle over time
and it's really happening for you not to
you when you fail I what felt you know
doable for me was going outside and
running you know I knew how to run no
one would laugh at me no one could watch
me work out because I'd be running by
them it was you know it was just easy
it's what was easy so that's where I
started and listen if that's where
you're at that's okay do I want you to
do cardio like that no Ally I don't but
if that's all you can do then get
outside and do it like that will get you
started at least on a track that could
eventually lead to weights wherever
you're at you got to start somewhere and
it's okay and it's important to
acknowledge and have the awareness like
what feels like doable for me not for
Whitney Simmons I don't know why I'm
bringing her up so many times this video
not for April Whitney not for my
girlfriend just like me like where am i
and focus on you and your lane that's
gonna be so helpful for you to achieve
miracle another thing I did when I first
started was at home workouts are the mom
they are so easy to do because you can
do them in your PJs in the privacy of
your bed
you don't have to worry about what you
look like or if you smell or if the
movements are doing or with the wrong
form you can literally just do them in
your bedroom this was me in college by
the way there was this basement gym in
my best friend's apartment building and
instead of going to a regular gym where
I could potentially run into like boys
or like boys I basically went over to
her house and I went in this gym it had
no mirrors no windows it was like a
disgusting little gray boxwood had a
treadmill and then it just had a space
and I rolled out of yoga mat and I took
up my laptop and I went on YouTube and I
just put in like hit and weights
workouts at home and then I just smashed
it out I would do like 30 minutes and
that's how that was the very beginning
of my strength training I did that for
many years and did not see results
because I never had the sub bornus to or
education to understand that you have to
do more than bodyweight exercises in
cardio if you really want to boost your
metabolism and burn fat and get to that
next level but like I said journey and
if it's available to you ask for help
ask for you know if any if you know
anyone in fitness or health space you
can dam me at any time reach out and
just say hey I don't even know like what
I'm doing can you help me you know can
you give me a tour of the gym ask a
trainer a lot of times gyms have free
training sessions available upon just
signing up so that's something you can
do so once you have figured out you know
met yourself where you're at the next
step is to create a plan when I first
started I kept all of my fitness
planning in a sticky note on my computer
that included you know each day of the
week I'm on Sunday and look at my
calendar and I'd say okay when am i free
when can I squeeze in a workout if I'm
not free what can i rearrange to
prioritize this because you got to like
make it happen you know and I would put
it in my calendar so I work out and I'd
say exactly what I was doing you know
was I doing small etics
you know day one of my free workout plan
not back then because I haven't been
created but you could do that if you
want you could literally download my
free guide it has video tutorials of me
doing the exercises it tells you exactly
what to do you can do it at home with a
pair of dumbbells so I would type you
know I would type that in Monday I do
this Tuesday I do this Wednesday I do
this then I would stick to it and I
created a little system like I put like
a check mark after or something to like
just reward yourself and make you feel
accomplished and it became a habit
through that tracking system and I do
believe that no you're not gonna be able
to change your current lifestyle without
bringing some new level of awareness to
your lifestyle
now this can bring anxiety to some
individuals and if you find that it
stresses you out to look at your you
know your schedule and your habits and
your nutrition start smaller you don't
have to overall haul it you don't have
to change the way you eat everything at
the times you wake up and everything
about your life just really start as
small as possible so if that's working
out once per week going for a jog then
do it girl like I don't want you to jog
but it's I would rather have you jog
than you know not do anything and never
get started on your health journey the
second tip is nutrition so if I could go
back in time I would tell myself that
virtually 90% of my results would
actually come from nutrition and not
really from the fitness of course it's
not going to come from cardio strength
training is really important for the
petite metabolism as you guys know from
all my other videos but nutrition is
really important what does it even mean
like nutrition is so complicated right
there's so many different people telling
you what's healthy what's not healthy
hard to know who listen to it's hard to
know what to eat so simplify it you
cannot go wrong eating foods that don't
have a lot of ingredients in them like
fruits and vegetables
now I'm not telling you to go home and
make this really strict plan that's like
all I'm eating this week are unprocessed
foods because that's like not gonna
happen
that I even and I don't do that I mean I
still have sugar in my diet I still eat
treats I still eat things that are I
guess like fun foods but you know 80%
the rest of it is unprocessed so what
you should do instead of revamping your
whole nutrition is just aim to just cook
one meal a week if you're a college
student and you have a kitchen trying to
cook something simple even if it's
literally just to no pan frying some
chicken breasts and you know baking it
in a tomato sauce with some spinach like
keep it really really simple breakfast
might be a little easier even if you can
just cook yourself some eggs have some
sprouted bread doing this is like an
active self-love for me that's what it
became I felt like I was taking care of
myself when I started cooking more and
it helps me learn about the foods
because you're not going to learn about
the food that you're eating without
starting to cook with it and you don't
have to cook on force on your meals but
make a goal of just having more
awareness of your nutrition by just
cooking one meal a week and see how that
feels for you don't set a goal to go to
the grocery store and only buy healthy
foods and like do this huge meal
prepping thing it's gonna just suck a
lot of energy out and it'll feel like
too much to do part of getting you onto
this new journey it's going to be your
motivation levels and your inspiration
so choose workouts that inspire you
choose foods that you know you're
excited about and start there
start where you can that's the most
important part lastly my biggest tip if
you're just getting started is do not
restrict too much number one most common
thing I see happen
is we go into these new journeys these
fitness journey is deciding to just
restrict everything like not eat any
sugar it's like I know it's one of those
like extremes all or nothing no sugar
I'm not gonna eat dessert I'm gonna skip
breakfast like it gets crazy right like
it goes from like zero to hundred we go
real quick when you announce your
friends that you're on a new diet and I
did all the diets I did juice cleanses I
did the diet fads I did intermittent
fasting like you guys there's just no
shortcut to this it's not going to help
to restrict your calories a ton it's
gonna slow your metabolism down if you
do that especially if you do it
it abruptly and a huge cut in calories
so focus on the quality of your
nutrition not the quantity you can also
just bring some awareness to your eating
habits in terms of your rituals so when
you sit down to eat a meal trying to
make it a good time you know don't eat
it like running out the door while
you're not present like try it and don't
do it eating TV like try to bring some a
new level of presence to your meals so
that you can get more in tune with your
fullness in your satiety that way you
can stop eating when you're full and not
when you're stuffed if you can just eat
when you know to the point of when
you're full rather than stuffed you'll
probably start to experience fat loss
but again it depends on the quality of
your diet so making sure that you're
eating high quality proteins getting
enough protein and eating mostly or I
could I could say if you're just getting
started even 50% of her your nutrition
being unprocessed food so you guys I
know it's really hard to get started for
me it was so long ago I have to put
myself back in that mindset but I just
remember feeling so overwhelmed like
work for me how do I know that this is
gonna give me results and the very truth
of it is that it's your belief that is
going to determine whether you stick
with it or not so set your goal small
enough that you can stay consistent with
them long enough to see results because
it's going to take about six to eight
weeks to really see the results in your
lifestyle changes so stay consistent
make sure it's small enough changes that
you can really commit to it and stay
consistent over the time one of the
biggest mistakes I made when I first
starting was just expecting you know to
do a few couple mile long runs and have
abs or just expecting to lose fat by
only eating salads for lunch and doing
tons of cardio and that was burning me
out it was destroying my body my
hormones my adrenals moving in the
opposite direction and I could only ever
stick with it for like a few weeks at a
time and then I would fall off stick
with where you're at what you can do and
of course if I were doing this all over
again with the knowledge that I have now
what I would do I would start with
strength training I would start with at
home workouts I would pick up weights
and I would start learning how to lift
in my house and tell us comfortable
enough to go to the gym and do it there
so if you want to skip some steps start
with the strength training so you can
work on building your metabolism as a
petite woman building your lean body
mass so you can burn more calories in
your sleep if you need a resource for
this I say this all the time just cuz
it's literally gotten so many like
hundreds of petite women started with
strength training I have that forty page
fat loss guy that has a free week of
workouts in it you can download it below
it's totally free I'm not gonna hurt you
a dime for it I made it specifically for
you the beginner the person who's
starting a fitness journey to just start
to dip your toes in strength training in
or what it's about and learning how it
can make you feel strong and powerful
and fit and get you real results when
cardio camp so I hope that you guys
enjoyed this video I hope that it's
helping you get some ideas you have a
plan
you know that you're gonna write it down
and you're gonna get started tomorrow
and not wait and if this helped you in
any way please give it a thumbs up and
subscribe for more content tailored to
petite women and I will see you guys
next week
[Music]